all right so what's your name buddy
my name is very impossible to pronounce
in English okay it's it's what a chili a
chili yeah it's very hard if you wanna
just call me Cory I think that might be
better cordless for the screen
call you what fine Corky Corky it's how
I'm usually for an evening game and
whatnot yeah okay cool man
and and so help and so tell me about
what we're kind of talking about today I
think we had mentioned something about
sociopathy so you think that sort of
fits with who you are yeah when I did
the forms I fit in I had like a couple
options that I could talk about most of
them I think I already worked on okay
multiple streams so I thought I would go
with the most important one I think
about me and also too when I least
worrying about or like talk to anyone
about like of all of them okay so tell
me tell me tell me what you so what are
you concerned about or what what are we
talking about here what why do you feel
like you're a sociopath what does that
mean to you to me means like more
manipulative oh no wait and also that I
don't really have it's not that that
sounds wrong it's not like I don't have
emotions but I don't show them as easily
and usually just don't you kind of mimic
in a way other people's emotions so like
if I am with people that are sad I'm
gonna feel sad in a way
and if I'm with people that are happy
I'm gonna be more happy or just in
general I'm just gonna be like what
ever well okay I had peanuts Tech just
leavin okay so can you help me
understand what you mean so yeah so I
think that's that's all you know I think
really appropriate stuff for us to talk
about let me just kind of repeat back
what I heard so it sounds like you do
feel emotions but that you mirror a lot
of the emotions that you see around you
mm-hmm and that you feel like you're
kind of manipulative yeah okay so we can
talk a little bit about so we can talk a
little bit about you know what you feel
and why you mirror and things like that
so we can talk about emotions and let's
we can also talk about manipulation do
you have a preference about what you
want to talk about first I guess can
start the potions
okay so tell me more yeah can you tell
me yeah can you tell me a little bit
more about that like how I feel yeah
sure yeah I think like I don't know how
other people feel exactly but I think I
have like this standing see off just
default to not feeling I guess the way I
could put it so like in general when I
am you know day-to-day basis I'm just
like fine right I'm not feeling happy
enough and said I'm just your
emotionally neutral yeah I guess so
okay but then it kind of changes
depending on who I'm with so like for
example if I'm with my sister who has
like a tendency of being more towards
the sad side I'm gonna be more like said
I'm gonna be more down I'm gonna eat
glass him why not and when I'm like
having an argument with someone for
example like if I discuss something with
my girlfriend have a fight or whatever
and she's very sad by it I'm gonna ease
that about it you like the same way she
is
do you even if I'm not really sad so do
you feel sad or do you act sad yeah
that's that's kind of like the issue I
can't really tell I feel like sometimes
I'm just acting and sometimes I think
I'm actually just you know like coughing
it you're just acting it I it's very
hard for me truth so this is something
that's very important okay cuz like let
me explain this so if you feel things
that other people feel you're actually
not a sociopath at all you're the
opposite so if you're if you are
empathic so if we think about sociopathy
the way that I understand it is that
your capacity to feel what other people
are feeling is actually low so I'm I'm a
psychiatrist and sometimes I can sit
with people that are suicidal and they
want to kill themselves and if I was
very very empathic or if I was if my
empathy was uncontrolled I would feel
really suicidal too
does that make sense like empathy is
feeling what someone else is feeling so
when you say when my sister is sad I
feel sad too if I'm around her so in
order for me to do my job I have to be
able to not feel what other people are
feeling does that make sense now the
tricky thing I did god no I think it's
actually more like acting in the sister
example was kind of about one okay I
didn't see when my sister said is
actually just like acting in a different
way than usual cuz I'm I'm usually very
reserved like I'm I'm working myself
more like doing my own things minding my
own business so when she calls and she
said it since she wants to talk to me or
she's just getting down in general and I
want to help her which is actually kind
of rare but what's kind of real I feel
like if like me wanting to help her I
usually just venture ignore it because
she has because uh it's very hard to
deal with her so I can't you just avoid
it basically so when I I want you help
her
I can't you like a more fun extrovert
just like more of a funny person in a
way right so why would a chameleon is oh
I know
the animal is yes yeah are you a
chameleon do you change your colors
based on what other people around you
look like I guess no way yeah right so
like the thing about a chameleon is you
can stick it on a you know a green plant
and it'll turn green and you can stick
it on a gray or brown plant and it'll
turn brown is that what you do you
change your colors to match the people
around you yeah pretty much yes so
always like sometimes I have I feel like
more self-conscious about it anything
like am i just acting all the time like
am I just basically making characters
for each situation and all like I'm with
my friends I'm this kind of person when
I girlfriend them this kind family this
yeah sometimes step that's thing that
bothers me
what bothers you is that it's like what
if I am just acting you know like in my
who am I in a way right because if I'm
just a bunch of character to different
people which one of those characters is
me right because it can be three
different people I I need to be one who
do you think what is it I don't know
what's it like to not level you are yeah
it's it's weird
I wouldn't say it's necessarily bad
because being like adaptive in a way is
good and kind of
dealing with the whole manipulation
thing it's usually good for me you like
that
tell me what you mean by manipulative
yeah so like I think a good example
would be how I am like in college and
why not like I don't care about people
or like whoever's in my class I don't
make friends with in or anything I just
didn't you move towards then been you
know act like I care about him and I
like them and we're not when it's useful
to me like if I know there's a an
assignment any to do like some homework
right English like if there's some
homework that I need to do and it's in
groups I know I need some more people so
I go looking for our people and act like
no hey what's up i doing i like
connecting with them just for the moment
basic just to make a groove get rid of
the homework and then I'm done I don't
care about them don't talk [ __ ] in so
that's like that one of the ways how do
you feel about that naughty I just
really don't mind it it's just useful so
yeah yeah so it sounds like when when
you when someone can when you need
something from someone you can be really
nice to them and when you're done
needing people your don't really
maintain much of a relationship yeah and
that's the way I am with my family as
well yeah like I don't really send
messages true because I'd only ever my
dad my parents anymore
I live with like my my grandma's house
so basically I just talk to them when I
need money or something like it sounds
awful
yeah and I know like probably saying
like wow how selfish and whatever I
don't know I just can't control it I
just think I just think you do that you
know just watch people get what I need
off them and then just like research I'm
not caring about anything okay
so so I know this is gonna sound kind of
weird but let's just acknowledge that it
does sound awful it doesn't mean that it
is awful right and let's remember that
we're not here to judge you
we're not here to say that you're a bad
person and I think it actually requires
a lot of courage to share what you've
shared and it does kind of sound like
you're sort of like associate that you
know and and and so let's try to
understand what that means and let's try
to understand where that comes from
because you you may not be right so I
think that we think about the term
sociopath is like black or white right
like like you are or you aren't but
that's not the way that I see it so just
to share a little bit I'm gonna try to
take the pressure off of you for a
second and talk about myself just so you
can kind of you know cuz I know you've
shared a couple of things that can make
people feel very judgmental or maybe you
feel vulnerable so I'm gonna just talk
about myself for a second is that okay
so they can judge me too all right so
the first thing is that like you know I
I think that empathy so I just want to
go back to this idea of empathy okay so
empathy is the capacity to feel what
other people feel and they're a couple
of really interesting sorry I'm tired
but you know there are a couple of
interesting things that you can look at
with empathy where so when you like
watch a youtube video let's say and you
see someone get kicked in the nuts a lot
of people have like an empathic reaction
to that and what they do is you know
they'll feel something in themselves why
are you smiling because like the first
thing when you say about that I remember
seeing like videos off just with my
friends up like people getting karma in
a way right so try to do something
better someone they just okay until it's
as you said or something and just like I
always just laugh at it and
yeah mine yeah I think it's just so-so
empathy is like so people who have high
amounts of empathy feel the pain of
other people and so you know when you
watch a YouTube video where someone
getting kicked in the nuts sometimes
like you kind of cringe and you're like
oh it's gonna hurt and then then so
that's what empathy is it's being able
to feel what someone else feels now the
interesting thing is that you were
saying that you know when your sister is
around and she is feeling sad then you
kind of feel sad too but that means one
of two things if you're actually feeling
sad that make that lowers you on the
sociopathy scale but if you're acting
sad that elevates yong-seok sociopathy
scales so on the outside you know you
could be act the question is you
actually feel sad when she feel sad
because that means you're really not
sociopathic we're very sociopathic at
all but if you genuinely do feel so I
mean if you do feel sad that means that
you're empathic and if you don't feel
sad and you act sad that is a little bit
more on the socio sociopathic side does
that make sense yeah and and what I
found in myself is that like I used to
be more like you but then through
because it sounds like you really do act
sad instead of feeling sad and and let's
just also acknowledge for a moment that
you know not having empathy does not
make you a good or a bad person so you
know a lot of times if you kind of think
about it in a weird way if people feel
empathic then it's easier for them to be
good people because they have a force in
their body that is pushing them to make
like you know help other people so that
if the other person is less sad then I
feel less sad so my helping them is in a
weird way driven by my own sadness does
that make sense it's actually in a weird
way far more difficult or even far more
moral to be moral and not feel those
feelings so then you're helping someone
really because it's a good thing to help
them and not because you have an
internal compass that's pushing you to
help them does that make sense
yeah so in a weird way I'd say if you
try to help your sister and you don't
feel any empathy for her I actually
think you deserve more credit than
someone who feels empathy because the
empathy is pushing that person and it
may not be pushing you so I don't think
that good and evil has anything to do
with sociopathy does that make sense
hmm okay so anyway in my case what I
sort of have have learned how to do is
open up my emotions and close them off
so I can kind of turn on and off my
empathy which is like required for my
job so there are times where I let
myself feel things with people which is
something that I had to learn how to do
because I didn't feel I mean I had a lot
of emotions like I had anger and
resentment and shame do you feel those
things no really I mean at least like
I'm I'm always very neutral okay I don't
really feel angry or do you have trouble
by going to sleep
no okay yeah I have my habits like just
leave like leave a video clean your son
yes okay dad okay is it okay if I ask
you a couple more questions to get sort
of a better sense of your relationships
with various people yeah okay so I just
wanted to explain a couple things now
we'll kind of go back to collecting some
more information okay so can you tell me
a little bit about your sister yeah she
has I don't think it's diagnosed yet but
she's more than likely has borderline
personality yeah okay yeah so she more
than likely has it and it's very hard
she treated as I'm sure yep and what may
- isn't that she has borderline
personality disorder
though a she acts in general and how
like she doesn't
she takes a lot lots of medicine she
kind of help her and it doesn't work as
he wouldn't what is the medicine
designed to help her with do you know I
think it's for depression mania as well
and she takes when she sleep
because she has another issue I don't
know the name in English at all but it's
basically when she sleeps her legs
restless leg syndrome yeah she has that
shoe so she has taken myself and thing
she takes like three antidepressants I
think she thinks Leitrim okay right yeah
takes that you and yeah she's very
impulsive by she'll do things without
even okay what kind of like what's it
like being her brother uh it's mostly
whatever because I don't live right so
she wasn't like that when I was back
home cuz I moved to another city my
grandma's house to the college so you
know was back home she wasn't like that
so it was fine like she would get angry
sometimes but that would be a you know
because she was younger as well
now she's 15 I think now she's what yeah
fifteen she'll be 15 this year actually
Oh boys so she's young how old are you
yeah I am 22 okay
21 actually 21 wait no I'm Twitter I
always get lost my age I don't know I
kind of stopped counting after 20 okay
so I'm actually pretty sure yeah so
she's 15 and no yeah because of the
issues she has she already like tried
suicide 19 three times maybe I was like
with medicine take a lot of Medicine she
hurts herself now
she's doing it last because she kind of
replaced it with cigarettes
it's your addiction right so yeah and
basically we you know I say we because
I'm not thinking about me and my parents
cuz I try to like help them it wasn't
try to help them because it it's like
troublesome if you have someone like
that right someone who can like you can
count with no way watch my parents need
help she's not doing she she's probably
do the opposite and just knowing that
they actually keep worrying about her
like and how much time and money they
have to like waste on her basically I'm
using some terms without thinking a lot
about them no I think it's good that
you're doing that so so let's think
about that for a second right so it
seems like you feel like to a certain
degree a lot of the effort that people
make to help her isn't gonna help and
let's be clear I mean that's not that
doesn't make you an [ __ ] it sounds
like many people have tried to prescribe
her different kinds of medication that
you guys have tried a lot of stuff so
it's not illogical for it to sort of for
you to recognize that a lot of this
stuff isn't really helping but why do
you try to help yeah as I said it's
because like hey I just don't want to
have someone like that in the family
like someone so I'm reliable and
uncontrollable and someone who is like
always so down you know way and also
someone who just like keeps making my
parents worry and everything why does it
matter if your parents worry well
I don't know just upsets me that they
have to like keep worrying about that
that they can have like East
what what's upsetting be you know that
they can't have peace what does that
bother you I don't know I feel like
everyone should like have times should
just be with themselves and not worrying
about something but they basically in
and it's also I guess because of how
much he actually cuz the they worried
about her but not just about her now
they also worried aloud about her future
right because she doesn't go to school
basically because of the Lexx of lack of
sleep not like I said she sleeps a lot
actually
so she yeah this is cool yeah and yeah
that's can you tell me a little bit I'm
sorry no that's like putting her behind
you know it right so she won't go to
college the time she should be going
sister I I guess I used to care more
before like before I realized how much
of her how much I can't help her because
I feel like you know no matter what I
say to her what I do or whatever
she just reset he sets actually you know
mmm and suicidal he just I think they
like cigarettes or whatever it is she's
becomes like caring about her is futile
there's there's not point to it
basically can you use
like that something like my parents
actually sadly kind of went through a
little bit an out there trying hard
again I guess Chile you know find
something to make her stop blink those
things yeah
they also made sure like a little bit of
a phase off oh I don't we don't think we
can do anything to help her let's just
you know keep her let her smoke
cigarettes and why not let her skip
school
we can do anything we can wake her out
okay and make her to go to school so you
know and if you if we like actually when
I tried to try to reduce at least a
cigarette she was looking every day like
it wouldn't work for like a little bit
and then she would be just like hey give
me more you know it would be like no I
already have had enough you know you
shouldn't have anymore
and she would just be like no give me
more or you know what I'm gonna do
anything she would coach the bathroom
and cut herself right so I there there's
nothing I can do
in a way sure is if I don't take the
cigarettes off she cut yourself it's
like worse yeah at least and she's
always saying things like oh and I'm 18
I'm gonna kill myself and I'm like just
like why like I don't I can't really get
her point of view I'm gonna just
second is that okay
do you feel hurt or any no really
okay I'm gonna say two words I'm not
quite sure if they'll make sense
caregiver burnout do you know what
burnout is yeah I'm still gonna be about
it
okay and and what I'm detecting is to a
certain degree I think like caregiver
burnout so this happens with people who
have BPD where the people who love them
eventually just burn out because they
try to help and they try to help and
they try to help and then you know they
just kind of become numb and they kind
of throw their hands up and they sort of
stop trying and then especially with
parents they can sort of like you know
they're kind of like neutral for a while
they're kind of burnt out and then their
energy starts to build back up and then
they start caring again and they start
trying again and things like that so you
know as as much as you know I know
you're saying a lot of things that are
gonna make people think that you're an
[ __ ]
what I'm really detecting from you in a
certain way is actually that your
empathic numbness is to a certain degree
protective because you've sort of
learned that caring doesn't help what do
you think about that
I don't know because like I never really
like work myself up where like I never
even do I say like yeah of course trench
helper and that was very tiring delayed
right cuz I I tried to make her stop and
then didn't work but that was most more
uh best month and of thing or what kind
of any like couple best marks okay
that's true bones you know that's when I
was trying to help for and even before
then I already felt like this Betty this
as you say okay so I'm not sure maybe
okay meaning more self-conscious to
beard so it sounds like you felt you
felt pretty numb but before tried to
help her yeah yeah and I think that that
makes sense right because you know I
don't think that your your patterns in
college around like group homework and
things like that
then that's obviously not caregiver
burnout right and and so I I'm not
saying that it's all caregiver burnout
it's just I was exploring that because
it seems like I mean you said that you
used to care more or that you used to
try more and it sounds like you know a
lot of the reason that you try is
because you're concerned about your
parents and that they shouldn't have to
try this alone and at the same time what
I'm kind of hearing you say is push back
a little against the idea of burnout
maybe that's what happened to your
parents but you didn't really burn out
you just realized it was kind of a waste
of time is that a better characteristic
okay a better way to put it yeah okay
okay so sounds like maybe not so much
burnout on your end and and maybe just
realized it was futile yeah so can you
tell me a little bit about your parents
yes my mom as bipolar disorder okay
she makes I don't know
medicine she should be taking medicine
she goes to a psychologist yeah yeah but
it never really worked out what does
that mean like she never got better
she's always do this kind of she's a lot
like my sister anyway like my family
it's me my dad my mom and my sister and
basically they away our family works is
like I'm like my dad no way I'm calm
more often tonight and my mom is more
unstable my sister is just like her
right so if she gets angry she's gonna
act on it she's gonna break things like
her wardrobe is broken down basically
she's like no doors
Oh true that about the work do you think
your mom may have have BPD I don't think
so okay well because when I think of a
PD I think it's much more extreme right
it's more just do your mom have periods
of like for like weeks to months where
she's basically normal don't be okay so
I'm gonna educate a little bit okay so
once again this isn't like medical
advice but I'm just gonna explain sort
of the differences in Diagnostics
between borderline personality disorder
and and bipolar disorder okay so this is
something that's very poorly understood
so a lot of times people with with
borderline personality get diagnosed as
bipolar so what people think bipolar
means like I'll get a lot of people will
come to me and say I'm bipolar and I'll
ask you what do you mean by that and
they're like I'm happy one minute and
I'm [ __ ] pissed off the next minute
and the next day I'm super depressed and
the next day I'm super happy that's not
actually bipolar disorder so bipolar
disorder is a mood disorder that is
characterized by weak
of month or months of an episode of
feeling a particular way so people who
have sorry my kid is screaming outside
so uh sorry it's distracting can I have
a second okay I think we should be good
sorry about that guys so what I was
gonna say is that bipolar disorder and
mood disorders are episodic which means
that it's it's a mood that lasts for
weeks at a time so in bipolar disorder
for example people will have manic or
hypomanic episodes which is days two
weeks of having like a very high mood or
being like super active not sleeping you
know it'll last weeks followed by
usually a crash of like weeks two months
of depression it's not like super happy
one day super sad the next day it's like
three weeks of happiness followed by
three months of sadness
so it's an episode with borderline
personality disorder what we get is
something called
emotional instability or mood
instability so their mood fluctuates a
lot more over the course of a day or is
unstable like over the course of hours
so a lot of you know when people come to
me and they say I'm bipolar and then
this is the unfortunate thing is that
you know a lot of these people end up
getting medication but the medications
like lithium mood stabilizers can help
in terms of emotional instability but
generally speaking you know medications
like lithium prevent or reduce the long
episodes so if someone is depressed for
like let's say six months and I start
them on lithium my hope would be that
they like you know over the next couple
of weeks they come out of that
depression and they don't get depressed
for months again it doesn't actually
change how you know quickly their mood
shifts over the course of an hour it
prevents whatever neuro chemistry
changes
keep people depressed for months does
that make sense so when thinking about
that do you have a sense of whether your
mom's moods shift like over the course
of days I mean sorry like minutes 2
hours 2 days are we talking like weeks
two months yeah I think it would be more
days it's just that like when I think of
borderline I think more about like
addiction to drugs or alcohol yep
multiple relationships thing yeah yeah
so so you know it I'm not saying that
your mom isn't bipolar
Minoo cuz obviously she's working with
the clinician and the clinician is gonna
know way much more than I do in terms of
what her actual statuses like and
sometimes people have BPD and bipolar
they can be borderline and bipolar like
those two things can exist together my
point though is that you know it's not
uncommon for me to hear stories of mom
with bipolar daughter who's bipolar but
it turns out that daughter is actually
borderline or son is borderline her mom
is borderline and really it's all
personality pathology it's not like a
discrete neurochemical imbalance that
then corrects itself over time which is
the way that I think about a mood
disorder so I think about borderline
personality disorder or sociopathy or
antisocial personality disorder is the
way that your brain is wired it's like
the way that your brain is whereas a
mood disorder I think about a change in
function so it's the way that that your
brain operates for a particular period
of time does that make sense yeah so one
is like the foundation it's the
structure and one is an operation so
mood disorder is the way that your brain
functions for a period of time then it
goes back to functioning normally and a
personality disorder and that's why we
call it personality because it's part of
who you are right Korky when we listen
to you you're kind of saying I don't
know who I am
that's not an episode
that doesn't like come and go that's
like who you are you don't have a clear
sense of your identity and it sounds
like what you end up doing is it since
you don't have a clear sense of your
identity you adopt the identities of
people around
that's the chameleon right so people are
sad you're gonna be sad if people are
happy you're gonna play the part you're
gonna fit in because you don't know so
what color is a chameleon really I think
it's great see no one close right like
that's the whole problem it's like you
don't know like I don't know what color
I really am and like how can you yeah
you know who knows right so what kind of
get to that does that make sense about
like BPD and and bipolar and borderline
and all that kind of stuff yeah okay I
think I should just add my dad actually
kind recently got diagnosed with bipolar
- he had like was almost it was actually
a psychotic episode okay right where he
was hearing things that weren't there he
was seeing things that weren't there
because traumatic experience he had and
then he went actually took clinic for
two weeks I think was like journalized
yeah like hospitalized actually he
stayed yeah yeah that sounds weak side
character yep that yeah he's taking me
to my sister okay that sounds like
bipolar to me so usually people like
having so that too is if we think about
that it's a discrete episode right so it
sounds like your dad isn't usually like
that and something happened to him and
then he changed the way that his he was
functioning the way his mind was
functioning the way his brain was
functioning and he started acting a
different way it sounds like he needed
intense treatment for a certain amount
of time and then hopefully he's back to
normal and and by the way dude it sounds
like I mean that's rough bro
like it sounds like you
a lot of people in your family who
really struggle and and that can't be
easy
yeah it's kinda funny I think I like all
of them have like something like some
kind of mental disorder in Stewart and I
just kind of don't at least not
diagnosed or never had any like issues
that made me like actively look for like
mm-hmm how do you feel about that
struggling in college I I think it's
just funny like honest it's the same way
like not necessarily physically not in
appearance not different like I'm a
doctor or something okay it's like all
of them have Nietzsche wear glasses
yeah like t-shirts right and I never did
my vision was always like perfect since
forever
mm-hmm even with me like always being on
the computer and always playing games
and whatnot I never thought worse hmm
so I think it's very just interesting to
me like how even though I'm part of the
family I'm kind of completely different
of them yeah okay kind of makes sense
right I mean I can imagine how it would
be difficult to form connections with
people like that if you feel different
does that make sense
like you just don't you feel like you're
kind of an outsider can you tell me so
you said that your mom and your sister
is similar in some ways are you and your
dad similar did I did I catch that right
yeah
in what way he's very like his preserved
and quiet and true himself and you know
also likes green beans like like I got
that from him I guess what right now he
just please FIFA okay
and what do you play just Oh I currently
am playing you either flashings alight
friendship yeah you're an awfully have
absolutely [ __ ] sociopath man I tell
you what like that's that's all the
diagnostic information acne but
seriously I don't diagnose or treat
mental illnesses on stream yeah that was
a joke so so tell me in what way so you
you get your reserved you guys both play
games what and what other ways do you
think you're similar to your dad are you
guys touch basically mm-hm can you tell
me what growing up was like for you I
mean it was easy I guess like I never
had any issues in school or anything
kinda like in high school I had oh like
the three years of high school that me
sorry like that was like from 2012 to
2014 I was very lazy in school I guess
it's kind of normal for teenagers that
age like I'm rarely ever did any
homework mm-hmm as I was to explain I
kind of thought my priorities on like
you know having fun playing games over
anything school related right on because
I didn't like oh I didn't like to call
it the course that I was thinking like
it was just very not what I wanted to do
sure so to kind of avoid that or escape
from that just bleep me alright so I
failed some classes that I had to retake
next year but I still completed it in
time okay fine then what are you
studying in college psychology actually
not surprised yeah last year now yeah
and and what do you want to do with that
like when I started it I felt like I was
for sure gonna go for like cleaning
stuff just like people win absolutely
yeah psychoanalysis we saw that one cuts
my fourth then like less two years I
think I've been kind of changing my mind
like I want to work we like eSports
maybe or like marketing somehow like I
wanna like different things don't really
see myself in a clinic all day every day
like I don't think it really fits me
anymore so we don't usually give career
advice on stream but one thing that I
would say so a lot of people want to
work in eSports and just a little bit of
career advice it helps to actually have
a concrete skill right so I I work in
eSports but the reason that I work in
eSports is because I have something
concrete to offer and believe me eSports
folks definitely need mental health
support it's a very high-stress
profession and so I don't know that you
know I think that if you don't want to
work in a clinic that's fine but I think
it definitely helps to have a concrete
like skill if you want to work in
eSports and I work with a lot of stress
management kind of stuff so I work with
professional physical athletes as well
and and you know I wouldn't I wouldn't
if you really like you know if you like
the mind and you like to understand this
stuff and things like that I don't think
that that precludes you so you know if
you think about it like physical sports
they have like physical trainers right
they have coaches I think one of the
biggest things that's missing in eSports
is that they don't have like mental
health coaches that's what they need
because they're stresses are like mental
and obtaining flow state staying in flow
States understanding team dynamics and
team friction and managing egos and
understanding feelings and you know if
somebody feels like they're gonna get
kicked how does that affect their
performance how does that affect the way
that they interact with their team and
then the sad thing is they're afraid
they're going to
kicked they have anxiety about getting
kicked and then their performance drops
it causes friction in the team and then
what happens Courtney yeah okay
absolutely right and it's a
self-fulfilling prophecy and if they if
there's one thing that's missing in
eSports in the video game industry in
general it's like people with
psychological training because they have
a bunch of marketing people right like
they're pretty good at that stuff what
they don't have is is actually so some
some teams actually do have team
psychologists and those teams actually
there's some interesting anecdotal
evidence that those teams far outperform
teams that don't have that so they're
they're a couple of teams and you guys
can do your research or I can talk about
it later if you all really want that
that work with psychologists and their
their performance is very good so I
wouldn't I wouldn't toss the
psychological stuff out the window if
you're interested in these words yeah I
intend on like at least for the next
couple years working in clinics like you
I get the right specializations yep I'm
struggling English I think you're doing
yeah I kind of want to seek out like the
right areas of study before I try to
dive in with sounds good can I ask you a
couple more questions about kind of
upbringing in some of your relationships
and how you kind of relate to people so
what was it like when you say it was
easy like do you remember what your
interactions with your parents were like
I mean always good what does that mean
well it's because I kind of compare
myself like my sister now because she's
doing like I saw her growing up and it
could compare it like her growing up to
my brother and so she's much more like a
rebel she asks my spared my parents for
something they say no she's gonna annoy
them she's gonna like call them names
she's gonna be rude to them hurt herself
to try
yeah what she wants that's like things I
never did which I asked my parents for
something they said no I would just be
like yeah that's fine I can just wait
for another moment or whatever and like
so I never had any confrontations with
them I was always very behaved do your
parents love you I guess do you feel
loved by your parents
ah it's kinda like weird because my dad
was always more reserved as I said like
just like I am like Marcin himself so it
was never hugs and kisses and whatnot
yep
but my mom always like showed her how
much she cared about me now I guess like
when you get older it kind of changes a
lot yes physical it smart you can feel
it easier did you know that your mom
growing up did you kind of know that you
weren't sure what kind of mom you were
dealing with look was there like a nice
mom and an angry mom yeah I was always
very self-aware yeah and so did it feel
to you like sometimes that love was sort
of like a switch that could be turned on
and off I I guess you know wait but the
same time like even when she wasn't
ready I knew she still like cared about
me how did you know that because like
every time like if she was very angry at
me for some reason
which was very rare okay always good
things I guess uh like after she got
she's [ __ ] by God not firing me or
anything she would just ten minutes
later she would come and apologize and
say how much she felt bad for it how
much she loved me and yeah
how do i spawn to that yeah we just be
like yeah it's okay I know you didn't
mean it
I and do you have any idea what would
have happened if you if you didn't say
it was okay I don't know I mean I guess
could make her like me again or I
wouldn't make sense for a mission like
say it's not fine cuz he really was just
like stupid things never like me big
never got hit like something impactful I
guess I was just like raise your voice
not really okay I guess like only
realize seven or something like some
snaps into play that's about it
I don't remember okay so it sounds like
you you know got along well with your
parents can you tell me a little bit
about your girlfriend my household uh
she's great
like she cares a lot about me I can tell
like how can you tell she's always
saying it and she always shows like how
she acts that I like I'm very important
to her you know is she important to uh
yeah yeah how do you know so I miss her
a lot like if I I stay like long times
away from her liked her a lot
yeah I can't really go a day or two we
are speaking to her something how do you
feel like Isis beautiful how do you feel
when when a day or two passes without
speaking to her
never happened back I've been dating her
for two years
hey like we had a little bit of
interruption because I was very I guess
it was like one of those moments where I
got self-aware like I said like you know
in my acting you like Who am I so I kind
of thought that was me very bad like for
her right there you know I mean I'm not
sure who I am so how can I say for sure
that I love her so like I told her that
you know we should just take some time
basically and we spend I think two weeks
that I just put in touch her whatever
and I was very like wasn't good for me
to like realize that I misheard that I
needed that that I need her her fight
for me and like it was very bad for her
she got like very sad wouldn't like do
anything basically got very depressed
benefit hmm no but I feel bad
about it even now because I know even
though we're back together and
everything's back to normal I know that
I still hurt her right I think that what
feels wrong about the interstate
uh I don't know just like she didn't
deserve to be hurt and you said you
became self-aware what did you become at
ur of of how I was from the different
different scenarios
like we saw her I'm someone compelled
become someone else help me understand
why that would lead you to take a break
from your relationship to kind of
explore that why would you do that what
difference does it take to her or to
your relationship if you don't know who
you are
stinking face good think yeah I don't
know I guess it really didn't make a
difference for her but in my like in my
mind I was thinking what if this really
ships just like butyl ice right cuz
what's wrong with that what isn't wrong
with that a relationship building lies
that's great so I don't know I just I
wouldn't want to be in a relationship
with someone who is like blind to me
it's not the person sure but she's not
lying to you
would you want to be a relationship
where you lied or I other oh why not
it's not good
lies are not good when I mean right like
lying tricky that Santa Claus is real is
okay but lies in general or not so corgi
do you think people still think you're
an [ __ ] right now how do you sound I
don't think so right so so can I share a
couple of thoughts with you yep
so for some reason I feel like maybe
taking a little bit more of an
educational approach to help you
understand maybe why you are the way you
are and what could be going on with you
and and also kind of try to tie things
together a little bit is that okay I I
basically have a hypothesis at this
point that I'd like to share and you
know I don't maybe the reason that I
want to share my hypothesis is because I
have enough information to form one so I
don't know I mean I would love to
continue talking to you more we could
talk more but I think I basically gotten
a an idea of what I think is going on is
that is it okay to share that okay
so the first thing to understand is that
I don't think you're a sociopath I think
you have so I don't really buy into that
term to begin with but I think that the
way that you relate to other people in
the way that you feel about yourself
developed in an environment that really
didn't give you a sense of identity or
how to relate to other people and I
think what we see from your girlfriend
is actually strong evidence that you're
not a sociopath but you still don't
quite understand like what the [ __ ] is
going on there like you don't understand
your feelings because you've never had
you haven't had many situations like
this before because it sounds like you
very genuinely care about her it sounds
like you feel guilty for hurting her and
you feel bad about that those are not
things that we think about sociopaths
doing so I think that essentially what
happened is you were raised in a
particular way and I'll state I'll say
what that is and so your parents didn't
do anything wrong by the way it's just
you grew up in a particular environment
where literally your brain learned how
to relate to people in a particular way
and it didn't learn how to be empathic
for good reasons and now you're like new
empathy and you don't quite know what it
is but you definitely are like growing
up in terms of your empathy with your
girlfriend does that make sense so let's
try to understand why that happens so
let's start by understanding like how do
human beings learn empathy if you
learned about any of this stuff in your
psychology class
I think so okay any-any and the ideas
are you want me to just launch into
lecture mode go ahead okay
so let's just start by understanding how
to human beings how do like children
learn how they feel so you know if a kid
like falls down and they scrape their
knee how does everyone react to the kid
yeah I'll get all wet sorry
worried yeah okay but like is the kid
really in any danger then why do they
they're all like oh my goodness
Oh baby fell down oh my goodness why
don't we do that there's no danger to
the kid right if you fall in scrape your
knee this need is everyone around you
drop whatever they're doing rushed to
you and said oh my god Corgi fell down
you scraped your knee oh my god Corgi is
so hurt why don't why do we do that with
children but we don't do that with it
weird right so this is what's happening
in it little baby's brain so little baby
falls down and feel certain things and
they literally do not understand what
they feel right does that make sense
like a two-year-old does not understand
what it feels they don't have that
capacity so how do Thanks
so how do children understand what they
feel is looking at the emotions of
people on the outside and this is why
adults have exaggerated emotions so that
the child if you have a subtle emotion
the child can't tell what you're doing
but if you have an exaggerated emotion
literally what happens in a child's
brain is it looks at the worry on your
face and it correlates that worry with
what it's feeling on the inside and then
the child says ah okay this is fear
this is worry oh this is happiness
because when a child goes poopoo on the
potty
everyone's like good job Corgi you went
a poopoo on the potty in such a big
poopoo you're such a good boy it's
exaggerated happiness right and so then
the child knows okay this is what pride
feels like because they look in someone
else's face and they're like okay that's
pride and that's how you express pride
this is how you feel pride what I feel
gets determined by what I see from other
people with me it's almost like the
facial expressions and emotional
responses of adults are like the gold
standard or the answer key or the facts
about their feelings on the inside with
me do you understand what like gold
standard means yeah okay
so what do you think happens to a child
who has a parent who is completely
neutral what do you think happens to
their capacity to understand their
emotions it's not there
why not because you didn't have like an
example to follow exactly so we see this
in in parents so now the interesting
thing is that so this is this is
something called attachment theory I
don't know if you've studied attachment
theory but you can kind of look at this
stuff and basically what what people
realized is that like you know the way
that emotions are mirrored by parents is
the way that children learn their
emotional self and the way that they
learn empathy it's all about mirroring
so if you want to terrify a child all
you have to do is look at a child with a
completely neutral expression and
they're gonna start to cry because they
don't understand what's going on and
then they get confused
children get reassured by seeing
emotions in their parents so if we think
about it you know in a child's falls and
scrapes their knee and the the parent is
very very worried then the child starts
to you know like they're like okay like
the parent is worried and then when the
parent calms down what does the child do
arms down absolutely right and so like
you may have seen this where sometimes
if a child falls and adults are quick
enough you can do something when a child
Falls if you laugh and you make it seem
fine
then the child is happy - they laugh -
and if you're worried then they start to
cry you see that their emotions
internally to a certain degree or
determined by what happens on the
outside does that make sense because
that's their gold standard so now let's
think about you right so your basic
problem is that you don't have empathy
you don't understand the feelings of
others so what one thing that we know
from attachment theory and if you look
at data children who grow up with
parents with personality disorders tend
to have difficulty with empathy and the
reason is because you have a pretty
consistent experience on the inside but
depending on how your mom's mood is she
can either mirror your experience as
well or mirror them poorly does that
make sense like if she's having a bad
day and she's feeling impulsive and
angry then like you can be feeling bad
about yourself and she's not gonna like
be able to mirror that or you can be
feeling good about yourself and she's
gonna get pissed at you and I think you
learned very very very early on how to
almost be manipulative with her what do
you think about that does that resonate
with you at all like you became the
manager of her emotions not the other
way around and it's weird because when
she feels bad about herself who made her
feel better
that was weird
I used to think like like especially
when was I'm like 16 onwards I always
felt like my mom was more of a teenager
than I was absolutely like all things
stabilities and yeah everything was
teenager yep absolutely so so adults
with BPD feel like teenagers
to their children and it's it's a really
strange thing that happened to you right
because like when you're seven years old
and your mom has done something mean to
you what you basically did is like you
think about like you know when a parent
is mean to a seven year old a seven year
old should feel very very very hurt
right and then mom comes to you and
apologizes and then you're hurt kind of
like disappears and instead what you are
is like caring towards her and so what
happens is like you lose a connection
with yourself what you are becomes less
important than what you need to be for
her does that make sense
yeah and that's when the chameleon is
born
that's when is a seven year old you
changed your colors on the outside
because of what your mom needed and you
became what she needed and then you
learned this strategy this adaptation
and I think you use the word adaptive
which i think is a great word you
adapted to ignoring what's in here and
being what they need out there and then
what happened is you discovered
something very very cool it worked so
now you say that you had a good
upbringing this is the crazy thing you
didn't have a good upbringing because of
your parents you had a good upbringing
because of you because you learned how
you need to essentially manipulate them
but it's not really like manipulation
it's just you recognize that if you do a
they're gonna do B and if you do C
they're gonna do D and you started
relating to other human beings by
recognizing that like what you feel is
not as important is the way that you act
towards them because if you act a
certain way you're gonna set your mom
off and if you don't act a certain way
you're not gonna set your mama and then
what we see is your sister doesn't have
that capability which is why there's
tension and sparks always between them
and it's also kind of interesting
because now this is where where things
get kind of like interesting because if
you look at the system of like western
psychiatry what they say is that
narcissism sociopathy and borderline
personality disorder are all linked
they all have actually a common root and
in one person it manifests in this
direction it's like a tree can grow
straight up it can grow straight to you
can grow to the right or it can grow to
the left but the root is all the same
and these are things that are called
cluster B personality disorders so what
people in Western psychiatry have done
is they've looked at the different kinds
of personality disorders and they've
said that okay these seem to be kind of
like bucketed altogether and then
there's cluster a disorders there's
cluster C disorders but these are all
cluster B and and so it doesn't surprise
me at all that you essentially grew up
you know in a household where it sounds
like your mom has something on the
borderline personality spectrum your
sister has something on the borderline
personality spectrum and you have
something on the antisocial or
sociopathic spectrum I don't think it's
like just genetics like there may be a
genetic component - I don't think you're
a bad person at all I just think that
the reason that you feel like you're a
sociopath is because your emotional
circuitry is underdeveloped because very
early on you learned that like your
internal emotional circuitry it got
confused because you didn't get
appropriate mirroring from your parents
and we can kind of see that because your
dad is reserved so you've got neutrality
from him like he may not have been
exaggerated when you bumped your head
and then from your mom depending on like
which mom she was you got like an
appropriate response or an inappropriate
response and this is the crazy thing if
we think about like kids or teenagers
who have strong identities of self what
are their parents like but do you know
someone who you think has a strong
identity of like who they are that's
like someone that you know
so I'll asked like people who are
watching to also just think about who
you know who you would describe as
having like a good sense of identity and
confident about who they are as a person
and and think about that person for a
second if you could come up with someone
you know great if you can't that's okay
too because I don't know that people
watching are gonna be able to really
they're not gonna understand what's in
your head but then the next thing that I
want you to do is think about okay who
do you know who has a strong sense of
personal identity and then what are
their parents like right so and I think
the short answer is that those parents
are gonna be very good at being like
reflective and supportive for that
person's identity and what that means is
that like they let that person be who
they are but the basic problem corgi is
that I don't think I think there were a
couple of times in your life or maybe
you know everyday to a certain degree
that you couldn't who you were being who
you were was less important than being
who you needed to be for your mom and so
you started to wither away and now
you're you're sitting at 22 and you're
like I don't know who I am and yeah
because what the way that you learn who
you are is through the mirroring of your
parents right and this goes back to the
idea when a kid hurts himself how does
he know what he feels it's because of
the facial expressions he sees on the
outside
parental mirroring is what helps you
determine your identity because then you
get data from the outside about who you
are on the inside
parental mirroring is also supportive
parent like parents who are supportive
and we see this with like you know to
Tiger parent is so Tiger parents or
parents that want their kids to be like
super super successful and don't give a
[ __ ] about their feelings does that make
sense to you like so a lot of like you
know a lot of people have Tiger parents
and like what happens is the child has
certain beliefs about like they have
certain things that they feel on the
inside and the parent basically doesn't
give a [ __ ] and the parent says I don't
care what you feel on the inside I want
you two just do what I want you to do
and then those kids grow up to be like
not confident and don't know who they
are because their parents never gave
them an opportunity to like discover who
they are because any time that child
tries to express their identity what
they got from the parent did not connect
with what they feel on the inside does
that make sense so I think now what's
going on is you're starting to find a
relationship where someone is kind of
mirroring you or you're starting to form
an emotional connection and you're
scared because you don't really know
like how to do this but you're hungry
from your for your girlfriend like
that's the best thing that I'd describe
like you know it sounds like you really
do love her and care about her and you
do feel things like guilt so you're not
like a sociopathic [ __ ] but I think
what's what's new to you is like this
sort of empathic connection you don't
quite know how to do it and and what I'm
getting from you is that like you know
you're hungry from her for her does that
make sense that word help me understand
in what way that word makes sense to you
well when I started like dating her it
was it was basically I decided that I
was gonna find someone you know was good
for me you know would find a girlfriend
a year and it was like a very fast
found her and didn't notice that you
know she was a good person and she cared
about me
so I guess I really under for him the
way of attention and love and like
really well and expressed love you know
they died even though I mean I had that
a little bit when I was a child really
later stages yep so so like that's
interesting right because you said that
she makes it abundantly clear how she
feels about you
so she does the equivalent of oh my god
Oh Corgi cuz she says she shows and
tells you how much she loves you and you
have to talk to her every day so she's
doing for you what your parents should
have done right right she's providing
that like amplified emotional response
because your capacity to feel emotion is
like you know your volume is turned way
down so she has to send you big signals
and once you get big signals then you
start to form a connection and I think
you're gonna be okay man I think you're
gonna be okay
and I don't think you have to end up
like your parents and most importantly
if you're thinking about having kids one
day I think your kids can be normal and
healthy right this is not a curse that
has to get passed on yeah actually I
wanted to ask you yeah because it's not
like it doesn't have biological roots
right right it's not purely a biological
thing well there's a difference between
not having biological roots and purely
being a biological thing does it have
biological roots absolutely is it purely
a biological thing absolutely not
yeah cuz I was wondering if it was
somehow really did you like how children
are raised
because I can see a lot of things that
went wrong like the way my parents
raised yeah so so let's remember that
how you were raised
doesn't mean it wasn't biological right
so like like let's like if I lose a hand
in an accident when I'm growing up
biologically I'm missing a hand does
that make sense like so so what happens
when you're growing up is your brain
wires a certain way and once it wires
that way it's absolutely neuroscientific
it's like neurological and it's
biological like it in your brain your
empathic and emotional circuitry is
wired in a way that is like different
from other people's brains
so is it biological for you absolutely
but was it is it genetic or pretty
determined absolutely not because our
brain responds biologically to
influences if I'm a chef and I I learn
how to taste things the biology of my
tongue in my gustatory cortex which is
the part of my brain that can taste
things is going to be biologically
superior to someone who is not a chef
with me so here's what we understand
about BPD okay the first thing is that
there does seem to be a genetic
component to it but the tricky thing
there is that I think that the genetic
component could have to do with
upbringing in the way that you're raised
by parents who may have a similar
personality disorder does that make
sense so even then it's not necessarily
purely genetic the other thing that we
know that supports that it isn't
necessarily biological or genetic in
origin is that one of the biggest risk
factors for BPD you can just yawn it's
okay man the the one of the biggest risk
factors for BPD is actually trauma at an
early age so even if someone wins the
genetic lottery and they get traumatized
in a bad way there's a decent chance
that they'll develop BPD later on in
life so that's not genetic but what
happens
trauma trauma changes our brain right so
is that biological like absolutely like
the two are connected but it's not
predetermined does that answer your
question yeah yeah so I think your brain
is different and we know that so we've
done brain scans on people with BPD and
we see that their brain is different
from normal people and here's just one
example of this so people with BPD if
you take an emotional insult the amount
of blood flow that goes to the emotional
parts of the brain and a BPD person is
like twice as much is what goes to a
normal person so their brain activates
far more rapidly compared to a normal
person after an emotional insult the
other thing that's really interesting is
that it maintains blood flow to that
part of the brain for like days longer
compared to hours for a normal person so
their emotional circuitry turns on way
faster and this is what's really
different the biggest difference is how
long it stays active so for a normal
person will feel better after a couple
of hours for someone to BPD they'll be
they can be upset for days and there's
absolutely a biological correlate to
that but was it biologically or
genetically predetermined no because the
brain wired a certain way as a child to
be emotionally sensitive and if you want
me to keep going I can even explain
further and the reason that their brain
wires that way is so oftentimes people
with BPD grow up in in households with
abusive parents and so what they have to
do is a survival mechanism is be able to
detect a tiny tiny signal from a parent
is my parent gonna slap me across the
face and they have to know that the
second that the parent walks in the door
and we had an interview a couple months
ago with a guy named iris I started out
dyrus Coco B and and you if you guys
watch that that interview you'll you'll
see I talk about that a lot in depth
where like you know kids who grew up in
abusive households are very very attuned
to the emotional state
of their parents and if they're not
attuned they get beat so they have to
take a tiny tiny signal and amplify it
and once they take that tiny single Oh
dad's not in a good mood today I better
act I better be super super nice and
that's absolutely adaptive and then
their brain wires to like to jerk up and
turn up the volume on all of the
emotional stimuli and then they enter a
normal relationship and they get [ __ ]
because their partner is not trying to
tell them that they're a terrible person
but they have the volume terms so high
that a tiny thing makes them feel
terrible and it's absolutely happening
in their brain sorry if I kind of went
off on a tangent there but thoughts or
questions for me Gordy or did I explain
enough about BPD any other questions or
anything else you want to share
don't think so okay cool man can you can
you share with me a little bit about
what his what you've taken away from
this or if this has been helpful and and
how yeah I guess it's very helpful I
understand a bit more about like what I
knew no way yeah and why that I'm not
exactly a bad person because of it yes
good you know yeah and what are you what
do you think you are help me understand
what what you learned about yourself
today I am just a very adaptive person
mm-hmm didn't get uh the right amount of
emotion from France yeah yeah and I'd
say when it comes to you being
manipulative it's just that you're kind
of you know I was talking about a chef
earlier who has a very fine-tuned palate
in your case your emotional palette is
very inexperienced so you don't know how
to taste different things so when you
interact with other people those parts
of your brain that normally feet like
make people feel bad are not active but
they're definitely there right because
you feel bad when it comes towards your
girlfriend and as you continue to have a
healthy relationship and these parts of
your brain are gonna start to turn on
slowly you may find changes with your
interpersonal interactions with other
people so over time and I think
especially if you have kids your brain
undergoes a lot of changes when you have
children because it has to so like you
have to learn your emotional circuitry
has to be like up like jacked up because
you have to be able to relate to a child
who can't communicate so you have to
learn how to be more empathic because
they can't tell you
thank so you have to be able to read
them way better so for me I noticed a
big change like the simplest way that I
can put it as ice never cry like I
didn't cry for like 15 years or some
[ __ ]
actually I mean I cried yeah I didn't
try it for a while and then I used to
never cry watching movies and then after
I had kids like I watched the Lion King
and I was like crying and I was like
what is like I was just confused I was
like what is happening
I don't know crying the same movie like
I never cry about anything
yep unless like it's me Mickey yeah
right Samia yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah I understand I know exactly what
you mean because I literally used to be
the same way and then like suddenly I
had children and like literally what
happens is your brain changes when you
have kids because it has to learn and
then I was like I'm watching blank and
I'm like well no one else is crying my
kids don't even really understand they
just like the animals so I'm sitting
there I'm crying it's like 3 p.m. on a
Saturday afternoon and my kids are
watching a Disney movie and I start
crying it's like what I was so confused
and so your your circuitry will turn
back on and and you know I think you'll
be okay man and you're not a bad person
you're really not cool do you want to
learn how to meditate because sometimes
we do that yeah yes what meditation to
teach someone who oh it never really
worked out I couldn't really we are my
mind yep no we're not gonna do any
meditation involving your mind we're
gonna do meditation involving your body
okay so I want you to sit up straight
okay so you know you know how you can't
cry yep okay so close your eyes and what
I want you to do I'm gonna ask you some
questions and what I want you to do is
pay attention to what happens in your
body as I ask you
and if you feel something in your body
let me know okay so first what's your
girlfriend's name if you feel
comfortable sharing it it's Sabrina okay
so I want you to think about Sabrina
what do you feel
all right what does that feel like in
your body it's like I'm you know like
tingling here take the muscles which is
mild and yeah okay I smile unconscious
okay and now think about the first time
we met
can you tell us a little bit about it
yeah we were we used to talk like online
because a mutual friend group and the
first time we met we were pinched a
movie with a bunch of friends and it was
very like funny cuz I was already in the
mall that we were gonna watch with my
friends and I saw Hurley call me and
just going straight up like she didn't
notice us because at the time she was
very fat like social anxiety uh-huh so
she didn't look around at all and just
didn't see us and I was like oh there
she goes and uh I went to find her with
my friends in the I just came like
behind her and I was like okay yeah one
of those need to tell her we are here
and no one wanted to go so I just sent a
message like hey look behind you and
like it was so it's very like nice to
remember cuz it was still cute though if
you turn around and you looks now pay
attention to your body what do you feel
yeah I am
you know okay tell me what you feel hey
what does that feel like
in your body tell me the sensations in
your body
I just know like I can't stand still I
mean energy in there yeah right
so sit with nachos there you are
yeah sit with that just bask in it
pretend like you're you're laying out in
the Sun and let that warmth fill you up
and if you feel like if tears want to
come out they can come out a big deal
don't try to hold anything back
and how are you what are you feeling in
your body or how are you feeling good my
eyes are kind of shaky oh all right so
these are these this is this is feeling
and your brain is trying to process it
hasn't tasted things before right
everything has been bland and now your
brain is trying to understand what are
these feelings what is this not quite
sure it's okay so now we're gonna go to
a different place so now I want you to
think a little bit about the moment that
you realize that you're an actor and
that maybe you don't really love her
right think about where that thought
came from you tell us a little bit about
how you came to that realization it was
just that I was just doing things with
my sister that day that she was here
butter down squeezing those gonna go
talk person and
and basically the whole time I just
didn't set a message for her and I was
just thinking like how weird it was that
I didn't think about sending her a
message or when I thought about sitting
here a message I would just think on how
should i what should I say and [ __ ]
should I act when talking to her you're
talking about Sabrina or your sister
yeah Sabrina and comparing that to how
like I act towards my sister so it's
kind of cool
mm-hmm so what I'm hearing is you you
were a chameleon that didn't know what
color it was supposed to be and you were
one color with your sister and you
weren't sure what color to be with
Sabrina and then yeah and then what I
want you to think about when you told
her what did you say to her when you
ended up telling her hey I'm not sure if
I I love you or what do you remember
what he said fracturing
so now what are you feeling in your body
it was comfortable gues comfortable or
uncomfortable and okay what is the where
in your body do you feel uncomfortable
sit up straight
it's like like hope bar here generally
chest and belly good so what would you
describe it as tightness or heaviness or
some people feel like their throat is
constricting it's kind of empty okay so
now what we're gonna do is I want you to
just sit with that feeling for a second
okay so you may feel guilt or hurt or
whatever those are the words that we use
and I want you to breathe into your
belly now now sit up straight
and take a deep breath in through your
nose and let it come all the way down
into your belly slowly breathe out and
again in through the nose and out
through the nose okay so nice slow deep
breath into the belly and then out and
now do it
third time and this time as you exhale I
want you to see if there's warmth in
your chest then it's kind of coming from
the outside as you exhale and kind of
going into that emptiness
but it's it's kind of I felt like it was
harder for me to like think back off
that moment versus the moment at first I
heard that oh that one is so much longer
ago yep
yeah so you're so overall I know it
sounds kind of weird but that's
basically the practice so what I what I
want you to do so let me ask you
something when you were breathing in and
out what was happening to the sensations
in your chest quite an experience how
you doing okay I promise we're almost
done so let me just ask you one or two
last questions what what was happening
to the sensation in your middle part as
you were breathing I felt like you got
kind of worse than I was Brittany right
and you've got better when I was
exhaling good yeah yeah so so that so so
what I recommend to people if they don't
know cuz you know at the beginning of
this you were like yeah I don't know
what I feel but if you're wondering who
the real you is corgi it's that person
that you just were for like 90 seconds
or two minutes or three minutes that's
the real you do you see that it's not
like an act like that's coming from in
here you're not trying to be unless
you're really [ __ ] manipulative and
you're fooling all of us which is a
possibility maybe this is the part of
the chameleon where you pry because
you're supposed to cry but I don't
really I don't think so but I would say
that that is the real right ensure
you've been a chameleon your entire life
but you're in there man and there's good
[ __ ] in there and there's bad [ __ ] in
there and that's what that's what the
real you is it's all of it
and all you have to do to get to know
that person is to just stop and close
your eyes and think back through things
or think back through your day and it
doesn't have to be big emotions it can
be all kinds of things it can be little
things again
all things it can be fun things it can
be ice-cream it can be a plant it can be
a sunset and and just let yourself feel
what's in there and if things come up as
you think about your sister
or think about your dad or think about
your girlfriend as you think about not
texting her for a day or two how do you
feel what feelings come up and then
breathe into it and then breathe it out
and then do that for a while and you'll
know who you are be good all right yeah
all right man strong work thank you very
much for coming on any last questions or
thoughts before we wrap up for the day
okay guys that's it thanks a lot man
take care so that was good that's fun
weird huh cuz like he really sounded
like a sociopathic [ __ ] at the
beginning of that and and that's what
I'm saying like you guys got a you know
we have to be careful about the way that
we judge ourselves and I don't want you
guys so this is the this is the problem
is that like you know he looks at
himself and he judges himself because he
doesn't see the full self you guys judge
the person that you are today without
giving enough credit to what made you
that way
right and and you know you can notice
things about yourself and just be honest
it doesn't mean that you're like a bad
person he's not a bad person he's just
he's he's emotionally his brain
circuitry wasn't given an ideal
environment to develop
yeah anyway
and yeah right so he's
okay um would a true sociopath even know
or admit that he was yeah so that so
this is an interesting question because
it implies a true sociopath is a binary
thing right it's like a true sociopath
is like a hundred percent likes
sociopathy is is a personality trait
that has a scale there are some people
at one end of the scale and another
other people at the other end of the
scale and I don't think that I mean
maybe as a true sociopath exists but in
my overwhelming experience it's a scale
and even if you think about like
neuropsychological testing it's a scale
and you get a score it's not binary it's
not like yes or no right and and I think
that most people know most people who
are like test hilum on sociopathy scale
have an inkling like he knows right like
he knows that he's a chameleon and like
he knows he's manipulative and he knows
that that's the way that he functions so
I I wouldn't be surprised I mean if he
got psychological testing and was
thoroughly evaluated and things like
that there's a decent chance that
someone would diagnose him with
sociopathy but I I mean I think that
that that doesn't mean he's a bad person
so that's the other thing that's
happened is that in our society
sociopathy which is a personality
characteristic which roughly correlates
with like you know super we have empaths
on one end of the spectrum and we have
sociopaths on the other end of the
spectrum and it's kind of a spectrum of
like where where your empathic you know
how empathic you are in and oftentimes
what happens is we have like moral
judgments that we place on a certain
personality characteristic but I'll say
again that surgeons and psychiatrists
test highly on sociopathy scale and
that's because it's like an adaptive
part of our job if I was super empathic
and kind of fell apart every time I was
with a suicidal person I have colleagues
who are very empathic and their job is
like hard they suffer a lot
so you know it's it's it's not like a
good or a bad thing and I think if you
guys really stop and and listen to him
he's actually incredibly more right and
even so more moral than someone who
maybe
you know more moral than someone who may
be empathic because without those
feelings he tries to do right by people
right so he it's like it's not like he's
like emotionally drawn he makes choices
out of like a genuine sense of choice
are you allowed to say what mental
illness he thinks someone may have on
streams sort of so I don't diagnose
surfeit mental illnesses so I don't make
diagnoses but I think it's fair to say I
mean I think I have sort of an ethical
responsibility to say like hey man you
may want to get that checked out right
so if someone that struggles with
anxiety sometimes I'll say to people
like hey you should really think about
seeing a therapist and see if you've
really got that I think that that's fair
it's not me making a diagnosis it's just
me suggesting that it it's worth looking
into it's sort of like you know if I see
someone on the street who's got like a
lump that I think could be cancerous I'm
not gonna make a diagnosis but I'm gonna
say like hey man maybe you want to get
that [ __ ] biopsy right that that I think
is a duty that comes with knowledge yeah
so I thought that was really fantastic I
hope you guys enjoyed it you know a lot
of people have been asking about
sociopathy and and so hopefully that was
helpful and I think that's actually a
really good example of what I think real
sociopathic tendencies sort of looked
like and it's conflict it's like
complicated and oftentimes it has to do
with like the way that this person was
raised and then the way that they were
talking about emotions and things like
that so you know thank you guys very
much for watching thank you guys for
supporting us and you know supporting us
during Mental Health Awareness Month I
think sociopathy is one of these things
that's poorly understood and if you guys
feel like y'all are sociopaths then like
that doesn't mean that you're bad people
and chances are you know you are that
way for a reason and it's like you can
still change like you don't have to be
that way that's the cool thing about
personality quote-unquote disorders is
that even though that your brain is
wired a certain way it's not like you
can change like people people with BPD
can no longer be criteria
or even be cured of BPD it I mean it
happens right people who are like
codependent which is another personality
disorder or people who are narcissistic
they can no longer be narcissistic or no
longer meet criteria for the disorder
which this is a tricky thing about
psychiatry as we like draw a line and we
say you either have it or you don't have
it but it's all a spectrum and people
can get better right like I used to be a
narcissistic [ __ ] too and I got
better can alexithymia be treated
absolutely so he's also Alexa thymic in
the way that you treat alexithymia is
exactly what we did right he's a guy and
he's like yeah I don't cry and then like
within 30 seconds he's like tearing up
thinking about his girlfriend that's how
you treat alexithymia it's like you just
teach people how to engage with their
emotions and you teach them how to taste
things and it's gonna start with big
signals right if I started to ask him
about his sister he's probably got
emotions there that are buried too but
we start with the girlfriend he learns
how to taste taste those those emotions
amplified responses from girlfriend as
he becomes more sensitive or more in
tune he can tap into other emotions tap
into other emotions tap into other
emotions so what about internet trolls I
love talking to internet trolls and none
of them seem to want to come on though
so what's the difference between
alexithymia and sociopathy so
alexithymia is is a symptom right it's a
particular slice of thing and its
inability to determine your internal
emotional state sociopathy is people who
don't feel empathy so sociopathy is is I
mean there are more complicated
definitions or better definitions that
when I'm giving I'm giving a simplistic
term but the way that I think about
sociopathy is I think about it as a
spectrum on like the empathic scale and
so its inability to like feel of the
emotions of other people and alexithymia
is an inability to determine your own
emotions so it's an issue of direction
good question though yeah so one person
says how about if I feel too emotional
like sometimes I get emotional watching
things that are not emotional at all
yeah that that signals to me that you've
got pent up emotions that are buried
down there
that come up at random times so you got
to process that stuff too that's more
about cleaning apps and processing old
emotions that have built up do you talk
with viewers absolutely that's what we
do so we usually do yeah okay there's no
one a truly bad person no I think there
can be people who can be bad people
absolutely
yeah people can do bad things
sure so